# Unity_Learn_-_AI_for_Beginners
Applying AI concepts in Unity project using C# and Unity's built-in navigational mesh functionality. Currently available systems/patterns:
* Finite State Machine

## Finite State Machine
A simple but powerful system. When AI behaviour becomes more complex, writing it all down in one class/script can become tangled and messy very quickly. The FSM separates each state the AI is in (idle, patrol, pursue, attack, sleep, etc.) into separate classes, but all derived from the same base class. Each state then acts as a node with links between it and the other states. The AI then moves between these nodes based on checks and the current situation it's in.
Each state contains within itself 3 stages: Enter, Update, and Exit. When the AI decides to move onto and calls a new state, the state first runs through the Enter stage. In this stage, all preliminary functionality takes place to prepare for this new state (e.g. set the character’s animation for this state). Afterwards, the Update stage takes place. This state stays as current and the main AI behaviour happens during it (e.g. run after player character). The AI remains within this state until an event happens which forces it to move to another state. Before proceeding to the next state, the AI passes through the Exit stage of the current state. In this final stage, similar but opposite to Enter stage, all the necessary functions run to clear out any hanging behaviour which might either interrupt or conflict with the new state (e.g. stop playback of walking sound before entering standing state). Looking at the code, the FSM allows for flexibility to expand the AI’s behaviour, while still practically wrapping each part of it within itself. This makes it easy to understand how each separate aspect functions and modify it without adversely impacting other unrelated behaviour.
In this project’s example, the AI is an armed guard which starts in Idle state. With a 10% chance that runs every frame, the guard may move to the Patrol state. This state has the guard walking from one point to the next in order. When the player enters the guard’s field of vision (i.e. has to be in front of the guard), the guard then enters the Pursue state, chasing after the player. If the guard gets close enough to the player, it will then move to an Attack state, which makes the AI guard start shooting the player. Should the player run away from the guard, it will start chasing after the player again; meaning it goes back to the Pursue state. If the player manages to completely escape the guard’s sight distance (or angle), the AI will then go into an Idle state and then back to Patrol again, going back to the nearest patrol point on its path – until the player comes into contact again.

# Acknowledgements
* AI for Beginners Course on Unity Learn. Finite State Machine project by Penny de Byl, PhD - [link](https://learn.unity.com/project/finite-state-machines-1?uv=2019.3&courseId=5dd851beedbc2a1bf7b72bed)
